Facilitate dockerized CoatRack deployment, remove dependencies on external Git service and external CoatRack gateway jar (#193)
coatrack/coatrack: README.md

![CoatRack architecture overview](./spring-boot/admin/src/main/resources/static/images/coatrack-architecture-overview.png)

## How to Build CoatRack Container Images from Source

 The following prerequisites are required:

* a Linux shell - Windows users can use WSL or the Git Bash shell instead
* docker
* docker-compose
* OpenJDK 11
* Maven 3.6.3 or higher

There are two scripts in the `docker` directory helping you:

> * `build-and-push-images.sh` builds the docker image of each CoatRack modul from source and pushes the images to Dockerhub. This script shall only be used by the CI pipeline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `build-and-push-images.sh` builds the docker image of each CoatRack module from source and pushes the images to Dockerhub. This script shall only be used by the CI pipeline.
```

There are two scripts in the `docker` directory helping you:

* `build-and-push-images.sh` builds the docker image of each CoatRack modul from source and pushes the images to Dockerhub. This script shall only be used by the CI pipeline.
* `build-and-deploy-images-locally.sh` builds CoatRack from source, creates container images on your local machine and runs CoatRack locally using these images. This is especially useful for developers who did changes to the source code and want to locally test the impact of these changes in a realistic setup.

```console
./run-admin-application.sh
```
After starting up, the CoatRack web application will be accessible at `http://localhost:8080` 

> *Optional:* If you are a CoatRack developer and want to run the application using a custom Spring profile, you can pass the profile name to the run script as follows:

Reviewer: This private profile information should not be deleted. Maybe it does not fit into this section, but in general we want to keep this information for developers. 

In doubt: create a follow-up issue as reminder to add this again in a later merge.

Author: In created the follow-up issue #195.

![CoatRack architecture overview](./spring-boot/admin/src/main/resources/static/images/coatrack-architecture-overview.png)

## Installation using production-ready Docker Images

 The following prerequisites are required:

> *  a Linux shell - Windows users can use WSL of the Git Bash shell instead

Author: Done as suggested.

*  docker
*  docker-compose

> ### Deployment For Newcomers

Author: I agree. "Newcomers" addresses the wrong group. It should be a word that addresses people who are familiar with CoatRack basic functionality and like to deploy and test it for their first time.

> ### Deployment For Newcomers

Author: I changed it to "First Example Deployment" and stating "This approach is suggested if you are familiar with the basic CoatRack functionality provided by [[coatrack.eu](https://coatrack.eu/)](https://coatrack.eu)" ... This is what I originally meant.

This approach is suggested if you are completely new to CoatRack and want to just want to experience what it actually does. Follow these instructions:

> 1. Change the `INSERT_SAMPLE_DATA_ON_STARTUP` parameter in `.env` to `true` to initialize the example Gateway in the database.

Author: I agree. I could maybe create a script that is to be executed for that purpose. Just one command should be required to make it as easy as possible.

> 1. Change the `INSERT_SAMPLE_DATA_ON_STARTUP` parameter in `.env` to `true` to initialize the example Gateway in the database.

Author: Note for me: Is it possible to override a variable from .env file by defining a custom environment variable using an "example-setup" profile?

> 1. Change the `INSERT_SAMPLE_DATA_ON_STARTUP` parameter in `.env` to `true` to initialize the example Gateway in the database.

Author: Solved. The section is temporarily removed (see comments below) and a script for very easy example setup deployment was created.

2. Go to the directory `docker/docker-compose-deployment` and execute:

```sh
bash initialize-databases-if-necessary.sh
```

> * The previous step is required to create the databases within PostgreSQL. Now you can set up CoatRack via:

Author: Done. I changed that as suggested but putting it in a line before the actual comment.

```sh
docker-compose --profile example-gateway up -d
```

* The last step is to check out the service provided by the example Gateway. Search for this URL in your browser:

```http
http://localhost:8088/humidity-by-location?api-key=ee11ee22-ee33-ee44-ee55-ee66ee77ee88
```

> * The Example-Gateway should accept the provided API key and redirect you to the website of the `humidity-by-location` service.

Author: See comment above. The wording "Newcomer" was wrong. This setup is meant for people who already know the basic functionality of CoatRack. I also changed that in the description.

* CoatRack can be shutdown by just executing:

```sh
docker-compose --profile example-gateway down
```

* If you want to remove CoatRack and all associated traces, execute:

```sh
bash stop-containers-and-clean-up-traces-if-existent.sh
```

### Deployment for Production

This approach is meant for developers and people who would like to deploy a production-ready CoatRack instance with a clean, empty database and without an Example-Gateway. Just go to the directory `docker-compose-deployment` and execute:

```sh
bash initialize-databases-if-necessary.sh

> docker-compose up -d

Author: This approach pull the latest images build on master and not this branch. The instruction should work, when we merge this branch and push the images to Dockerhub.

> docker-compose up -d

Reviewer: Should we then maybe move these instructions to a follow-up issue, so that can first merge this PR (without these instructions), then we can test these instructions properly before merging? This way we prevent that the master README contains instructions that have not yet been fully tested.

> docker-compose up -d

Author: Done as suggested. See comments below.

```

CoatRack will be accessible at `localhost:8080`. The 'database-initialization' has to be performed only once at the beginning. The initialization will persist on the docker volume used by the database.

## Operations from Scratch

To build CoatRack from scratch the following prerequisites are required in addition to the dependencies mentioned in the previous section:

* OpenJDK 11

> * Maven 3.6.3 or higher

Author: Yes. Therefore I wrote "in addition to the dependencies mentioned in the previous section". Maybe its too abstract and I should just list them here explicitly as well.

> * Maven 3.6.3 or higher

Author: Done as suggested in my comment.

There are two scripts in the `docker` directory helping you:

> * `build-and-push-images.sh` builds the docker image of each CoatRack modul from source and pushes the images to Dockerhub. This only works, when the docker daemon is already logged in to the CoatRack repository. This script is especially useful within a CI pipeline to update the latest Dockerhub images.

Author: I changed that so it states that this script shall be used by the CI pipeline only.

> * `build-and-deploy-images-locally.sh` also builds the above mentioned docker images from scratch for local use and deploys a production-ready instance locally using these images. This is especially useful for developers who apply changes to the source code locally and want to test the impact of these changes in a realistic setup.

Author: Done as suggested.

## Installation using Docker Images

 The following prerequisites are required:

*  a Linux shell - Windows users can use WSL or the Git Bash shell instead
*  docker
*  docker-compose

### First Example Deployment

> This approach is suggested if you are familiar with the basic CoatRack functionality provided by [coatrack.eu](https://coatrack.eu) and you want to deploy your own CoatRack instance. Go to the directory `docker/docker-compose-deployment` and follow these instructions:

Reviewer: Maybe mention that this is an experimental or test deployment?

Author: As discussed, I just removed this section from the README for now and saved your suggestions for later when all features are working and this section could be re-added.

> 1. Change the `INSERT_SAMPLE_DATA_ON_STARTUP` parameter in `.env` to `true` to initialize some example data. This step is optional.

Reviewer: If the sample data is not included, the access to the sample service via the sample gateway will probably not work. So I am not sure if this makes sense.

Author: You are correct which is why I corrected that. I also introduced a simple bash script which can be run, to set up the example instance of CoatRack using example data and an example gateway.

## Usage

To start using CoatRack: 

> - either run CoatRack locally as explained in the "Install ..." sections

Reviewer: "Install" is misleading, see other comment below.

Author: Done as suggested in comment below.

- or open the public instance available at https://coatrack.eu.

To log-in to CoatRack, a Github account is required. After logging in and filling in the registration form, the CoatRack Web Application will open. Use the "Getting started tutorials" that are accessible from inside the application to learn the basics of using CoatRack.

There are two tutorials inside the application:

- Offering service APIs via CoatRack
- Using service APIs offered via CoatRack

> ## Install CoatRack Locally via CLI

Reviewer: As far as I understand the following instructions, they are to build from source and run locally. Therefore the word "Install" seems misleading to me. I would suggest to replace it by "Build and Run".

Author: Done.

The following prerequisites are required:

* a Linux shell - Windows users can use WSL or the Git Bash shell instead
* OpenJDK 11
* Maven 3.6.3 or higher

Open a terminal, go into the `coatrack` directory and build all components using one the the commands below:

```sh
bash build.sh # For Linux shells
mvn clean package # For Linux or Windows shells
```

 

Run the Web Application component (admin):

```sh

> java -jar spring-boot/admin/target/coatrack-admin-*.jar

Reviewer: We have the specific run script for this purpose, does it not work on Win? Maybe this should be solved in a follow-up.

```

The windows terminal does not recognize the `*` . If you are using the windows terminal then the `*` is to be replaced by the proper coatrack version number. Just take a look at the jar file in `spring-boot/admin/target/` directory and adapt the command above.

Now, open another session/terminal and additionally run the config-server component:

```sh
java -jar spring-boot/config-server/target/coatrack-config-server-*.jar
```

Now you a have a fully working instance of CoatRack using non-persistent databases. You can access it on `http://localhost:8080`.

> ## Install CoatRack Locally via Docker Compose

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Build and Run CoatRack Locally via Docker Compose
```

Author: Done.

The following prerequisites are required:

* a Linux shell - Windows users can use WSL or the Git Bash shell instead
* OpenJDK 11
* Maven 3.6.3 or higher
* docker 20.10.12 or higher
* docker-compose 1.29.2 or higher

With your terminal go into the `coatrack/docker` directory where you will find two scripts:

> * `build-and-push-images.sh` builds the docker image of each CoatRack module from source and pushes the images to Dockerhub. This script shall only be used by the CI pipeline.

Reviewer: This does not really fit in the section considering the heading "... Locally".

Author: I removed the script from this section, as it is just of interest for us developers.

Open a terminal, go into the `coatrack` directory and build all components using one the the commands below:

```sh
bash build.sh # For Linux shells

> mvn clean package # For Linux or Windows shells

Reviewer: I assume the `build.sh` does not work for windows? In this case it does not make sense to keep it here, as the second command should work for everyone...

### Regular Deployment

> This approach is meant for developers and people who would like to deploy a CoatRack instance with a clean, empty database and without an Example-Gateway. Just go to the directory `docker-compose-deployment` and execute:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This approach is meant for those who would like to deploy a new CoatRack instance with a clean, empty database. Just go to the directory `docker-compose-deployment` and execute:
```

Author: As discussed, I just removed this section from the README for now and saved your suggestions for later when all features are working and this section could be re-added.
